Course Project
--------------

AS described in the README.txt file, the course project makes use of a 'Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones' data set. More information about the original data set and how it was obtained can be found at the following link:

> http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones

Additional information can be found in the documentation contained in the original data set itself:

> https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 

### Variables

The variables from the data set generated by the run_analysis file come from the accelerometer and gyroscope 3-axial raw signals tAcc-XYZ and tGyro-XYZ. These time domain signals (prefix 't' to denote time) were captured at a constant rate of 50 Hz. Then they were filtered using a median filter and a 3rd order low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 20 Hz to remove noise. Similarly, the acceleration signal was then separated into body and gravity acceleration signals (tBodyAcc-XYZ and tGravityAcc-XYZ) using another low pass Butterworth filter with a corner frequency of 0.3 Hz. 

Subsequently, the body linear acceleration and angular velocity were derived in time to obtain Jerk signals (tBodyAccJerk-XYZ and tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ). Also the magnitude of these three-dimensional signals were calculated using the Euclidean norm (tBodyAccMag, tGravityAccMag, tBodyAccJerkMag, tBodyGyroMag, tBodyGyroJerkMag). 

Finally a Fast Fourier Transform (FFT) was applied to some of these signals producing fBodyAcc-XYZ, fBodyAccJerk-XYZ, fBodyGyro-XYZ, fBodyAccJerkMag, fBodyGyroMag, fBodyGyroJerkMag. (Note the 'f' to indicate frequency domain signals). 

These signals were used to estimate variables of the feature vector for each pattern ('-XYZ' is used to denote 3-axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions):

     tBodyAcc-XYZ 
     tGravityAcc-XYZ 
     tBodyAccJerk-XYZ 
     tBodyGyro-XYZ 
     tBodyGyroJerk-XYZ 
     tBodyAccMag 
     tGravityAccMag 
     tBodyAccJerkMag 
     tBodyGyroMag 
     tBodyGyroJerkMag 
     fBodyAcc-XYZ 
     fBodyAccJerk-XYZ 
     fBodyGyro-XYZ 
     fBodyAccMag 
     fBodyAccJerkMag 
     fBodyGyroMag 
     fBodyGyroJerkMag 

The set of variables that were estimated from these signals are: 

     mean: Mean value
     std: Standard deviation

### Text File

The text file generated by the run_analysis.R file contains 68 columns. The first column identifies the subject who performed the activity. Its range is from 1 to 30. The second column identifies which of the six activities was performed by the subject:

     LAYING
     SITTING
     STANDING
     WALKING
     WALKING_DOWNSTAIRS
     WALKING_UPSTAIRS

There are 180 rows in the text file (not including the first row, which contains the column labels), each row corresponding to one of the 180 combinations of the 30 subjects and 6 activities.

The 3rd through 68th columns of the file correspond to the 66 variables whose values themselves were calculated as a mean or standard deviation:

     tBodyAcc-mean-X     
     tBodyAcc-mean-Y     
     tBodyAcc-mean-Z     
     tBodyAcc-std-X      
     tBodyAcc-std-Y            
     tBodyAcc-std-Z           
     tGravityAcc-mean-X        
     tGravityAcc-mean-Y        
     tGravityAcc-mean-Z       
     tGravityAcc-std-X         
     tGravityAcc-std-Y         
     tGravityAcc-std-Z        
     tBodyAccJerk-mean-X       
     tBodyAccJerk-mean-Y       
     tBodyAccJerk-mean-Z      
     tBodyAccJerk-std-X        
     tBodyAccJerk-std-Y        
     tBodyAccJerk-std-Z       
     tBodyGyro-mean-X          
     tBodyGyro-mean-Y          
     tBodyGyro-mean-Z         
     tBodyGyro-std-X           
     tBodyGyro-std-Y           
     tBodyGyro-std-Z          
     tBodyGyroJerk-mean-X      
     tBodyGyroJerk-mean-Y      
     tBodyGyroJerk-mean-Z     
     tBodyGyroJerk-std-X       
     tBodyGyroJerk-std-Y       
     tBodyGyroJerk-std-Z      
     tBodyAccMag-mean          
     tBodyAccMag-std           
     tGravityAccMag-mean      
     tGravityAccMag-std        
     tBodyAccJerkMag-mean      
     tBodyAccJerkMag-std      
     tBodyGyroMag-mean         
     tBodyGyroMag-std          
     tBodyGyroJerkMag-mean    
     tBodyGyroJerkMag-std      
     fBodyAcc-mean-X           
     fBodyAcc-mean-Y          
     fBodyAcc-mean-Z           
     fBodyAcc-std-X            
     fBodyAcc-std-Y           
     fBodyAcc-std-Z            
     fBodyAccJerk-mean-X       
     fBodyAccJerk-mean-Y      
     fBodyAccJerk-mean-Z       
     fBodyAccJerk-std-X        
     fBodyAccJerk-std-Y       
     fBodyAccJerk-std-Z        
     fBodyGyro-mean-X          
     fBodyGyro-mean-Y         
     fBodyGyro-mean-Z          
     fBodyGyro-std-X           
     fBodyGyro-std-Y          
     fBodyGyro-std-Z          
     fBodyAccMag-mean          
     fBodyAccMag-std          
     fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-mean  
     fBodyBodyAccJerkMag-std   
     fBodyBodyGyroMag-mean    
     fBodyBodyGyroMag-std      
     fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-mean 
     fBodyBodyGyroJerkMag-std 

Each row value for each of these 66 variables is the mean of values (each of which is itself a mean or standard deviation from a group of measurements) for the corresponding subject and activity.

### Units:

The acceleration signal from the smartphone accelerometer X, Y, and Z axes is in standard gravity units 'g'.
The body acceleration signal was obtained by subtracting the gravity from the total acceleration. 
The angular velocity measured by the gyroscope is in units of radians/second. 

### Notes: 

- Variables are normalized and bounded within [-1,1].
